Dr. Belis Aladag: We'll be seeing Sophie Conley
Dr. Belis Aladag: There is no cures activity in the past year for her.
sophie conley: Hello.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Hi Sophie, how are you
sophie conley: Good, how are you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good, good. Dr. Allah DAG.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Nice to meet you. Have you been with us before a bright heart.
sophie conley: No, I haven't.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so it's your first time here.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And tell me where you you referred to us by. Was it a hospital or another doctor. How did
sophie conley: My through my therapist at UCSF.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. And in this covert situation with the virus. Are you seeing that there percent person are you doing like this like zoom or
sophie conley: Via I'm also doing the zoom with her. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, yeah, everything is zoom the staff.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah. Crazy.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, cool. Um, so, so I I am an addiction doctor and I have patients here that you know are have different substances of choice.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, and we work together. So this first visit is about like trying to get to know you, your history in more detail and then
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then once we finish this. We do weekly follow up in a group setting where it's you and then a couple of other people and
Dr. Belis Aladag: We do a brief check in, like, Hey, how's it going, How's your week, etc. And then we open the group into a group discussion. There's usually a therapist with me. That helps like lead that group discussion, but that's kind of our model here.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So why don't we get started. Tell me. Tell me about your like, first of all, what is your drug of choice and how did you, how did that come about, like, Tell me your history with different drugs with alcohol, did you start when you were young. Like, how old were you all that
sophie conley: Yeah. Um, so I guess with alcohol. It started when I was around like 15 or 16
sophie conley: Okay, um,
sophie conley: And it's been like on and off for, I guess it would be like seven years.
sophie conley: Okay. Um, and then more recently, my drug of choice was cocaine. Okay. And that started probably
sophie conley: A little over a year ago. And then I just gradually getting worse.
sophie conley: Or more consistent um
Got it.
sophie conley: Sorry, I was just gonna say um
sophie conley: I also used to smoke marijuana but I don't really do that anymore.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
sophie conley: That was definitely like
sophie conley: An addiction type of deal.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That you had, when did you start the marijuana, same as alcohol like 1516 or later.
sophie conley: I'm a little bit later. I'll say like 16 or 17
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. OK.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then when you started the marijuana. So how long did you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Use that for until a this is did you stop on purpose, like okay this is I'm becoming like it's getting out of control. I want to stop or was it what happened.
sophie conley: Yeah, it was on purpose. And I just like started a job. So I didn't really have time for it anymore. And the last I smoked. I'm like the last I liked it I guess. And I just kind of
sophie conley: Like switched over to drinking more
Dr. Belis Aladag: God and when, when was that, how old were you when that switch happened or that job, you took that job and
sophie conley: I'm about a year ago.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. You were like 20 years 28 you just turned 23 Happy birthday.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so you were like 22
Dr. Belis Aladag: And use you kind of you took this job use you wean yourself off and just stop the marijuana you you did increase, then you're alcohol use, you're saying
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right and and also did you start your cocaine use at that time, or did it like it was. You were always kind of dabbling but it escalated or what happened.
sophie conley: Yeah, I was always like I never really bought it myself like I would just dabble in it when it came about and then
sophie conley: I'm probably with that, within the last like
sophie conley: I don't know, maybe six or nine months. Um, I started to like increase my use and like buy it and
sophie conley: Become like dependent on it like cravings and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, started having cravings.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then, and then tell me about the job. So what kind of job was it that you took
sophie conley: I was working on a thrift store.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you're at the thrift store and then were you did you continue to work this whole time that the cocaine is escalating and stuff.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah okay any problems at work. Did anyone notice like a you're kind of weird. You're moody, or you didn't show up to work or
Um,
sophie conley: I don't think anyone really notice but I definitely was like
sophie conley: I don't know, still like recovering or like coming down from it. When I would be working or something like that. So,
Not
sophie conley: Awesome.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah okay so you you yourself weren't feeling optimal. But, you know, one approach to or anything.
Dr. Belis Aladag: No. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then and. Where were you living, where have you had you been living when this is happening.
sophie conley: I remember living at my parents house. Okay. And I have been for like a couple years now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you're still there.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. And it's you and your mom and dad anyone else they're
sophie conley: Not. That's it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you have any siblings like
sophie conley: Brothers, sisters, yeah. I have an older brother.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And he he's, he left the house, a while ago, or, oh,
sophie conley: Yeah, she
sophie conley: She's 26 and he left like years ago for college and then he like moved in back to San Francisco.
sophie conley: So he lives nearby, but he doesn't live with us. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gotcha, your older brother. Is there any family history of like people drinking like alcohol problems or any substance issues.
sophie conley: Um, my mom's dad.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your mom's dad.
sophie conley: Was an alcoholic.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Anyone else you know
sophie conley: I'm not gonna know of
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and you have you had
Dr. Belis Aladag: Anything that you were put on meds for, like, have you been diagnosed with any psychiatric stuff and in depression, anxiety, anything like that.
sophie conley: Um, depression and anxiety and I'm taking
sophie conley: Fluids a team and a lot of pain for that.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And when did they start do when were you diagnosed when did you start that
sophie conley: Um,
sophie conley: Honestly, like, three years ago.
sophie conley: Okay.
sophie conley: Okay, and
sophie conley: I started like trying different depression medications and then I like found the one that I'm on now work.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And do you still see the doctor the psychiatrists to take care of you.
sophie conley: Yeah, I still see a psychiatrist.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then you mentioned the therapist. So you have also a therapist. How long have you been doing therapy, since you were diagnosed like three years ago or
I'm
Dr. Belis Aladag: on offer.
sophie conley: Yeah, I think, about three years ago.
sophie conley: Is when I
sophie conley: Started
Dr. Belis Aladag: And it's the same therapist, so they know
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
sophie conley: Yeah.
You know what's going on.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you have the therapist doing that and then
Dr. Belis Aladag: Cocaine thing got out of hand now but but on and off with alcohol. You had mentioned right
sophie conley: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Tell me about alcohol. Did you feel like that because that was the first thing you started and marijuana. Do you feel like alcohol was problematic for you to like
sophie conley: Yeah, I'm
Dr. Belis Aladag: Into like more than two, three drinks in one sitting.
sophie conley: Um, when I first started, I
sophie conley: Definitely drink a lot, but it was more like how often I was drinking. Okay, and then
sophie conley: On and off like throughout high school
sophie conley: I was like, just drinking too much and like drinking too often. Okay, and
sophie conley: It would be I will kind of be on and off and then like as I started to smoke more I drank less and
sophie conley: Like that, like switched back
Back.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then the cocaine. Yep. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: All right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So yeah, I would say, it sounds like you had you have those three three substances, I would say you have a use disorder with all three, you know, in varying degrees.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And each one has different qualities. So the consequences of use of this or that is also dependent on like what chemical it is to write
Dr. Belis Aladag: So cocaine of, you know, well,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Alcohol can kill you, as well. But cocaine can kill you quickly because of the heart, heart attack problem stroke problem, you know, then then also the purity. We don't know what's in it. Sometimes there's other things in their content.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And stuff and people use fentanyl and you think you're doing, you know, it's just so, so there's so many reasons why that is a super dangerous chemical right to be using
Dr. Belis Aladag: Alcohol is also very dangerous and very toxic, but usually it takes some time to build up, you know, it takes its toll on you. And it hits you, but
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's a little bit
Dr. Belis Aladag: Less imminent. You know what I mean.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: All right, and then the marijuana marijuana can be detrimental as well. I mean, you already saw that you're like, it was becoming a problem.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you feel like it was, it's the, the fact that you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Want to escape something that's problematic for you, like, what, what was when you were smoking the pot and you were feeling like it was out of control what was going on, like, why did you feel that way. How
sophie conley: I would just be like,
sophie conley: A slave to my lead. You know, like constantly like feeling like I have to go back and smoke and like, yeah, clear my head, I guess. Get away, and I will also be smoking it with tobacco. So that made it like even more addictive. I think
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, of course.
sophie conley: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. Do you smoke cigarettes right now. Any nicotine.
sophie conley: I don't smoke cigarettes, but I use like the pens.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Of it. Okay.
So,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, they've been so beeping. I mean, obviously better than tobacco in a lot of ways, but in another sense. I'm sure you've heard of the recent like pneumonias and things that are popping up. Have you heard about that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's it's it's not, it's still like the stuff that you're vaporizing into your lungs is still a chemical
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, and they're there might be cancer causing agents in there. You know, so it's still something that we can work on later if you don't feel like that's something you want to focus on right now, but it would be great if we can get you off of that as well.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, we can utilize like nicotine gum or nicotine candies, if you want.
sophie conley: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that's something to think about. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Anything.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Any incidents occur. That means you kind of recognize that this is coming this cocaine thing is coming too far. Like something happen, are you
sophie conley: Um, no not not like anything physical or emotionally like big that happens that made me want to stop just like my friends expressing their concern and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your friends said something
Yeah.
sophie conley: They definitely like encouraged me to reach out for help.
sophie conley: And then I my mom like had a suspicion that I was using. And I just recently told both my pants.
sophie conley: About it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good, yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm glad I'm sure that wasn't easy, but
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's good to be open with family, you know. Yeah.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: good times and bad times.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So okay, so you're open with them and then you you've been seeing this therapist for three years. But you maybe weren't really being forthright about this stuff until recently. All right.
sophie conley: Um,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Or did she kind of know
sophie conley: I think she kind of knew
sophie conley: But thought that like she wouldn't be enough help to, like, help me get through it or like
Mm hmm.
sophie conley: Like problem solver around cravings and stuff like that.
sophie conley: But I just like chose not to really like
sophie conley: Take
sophie conley: Everything so seriously, I guess.
sophie conley: God, or I would like try and it just like I my cravings were too strong, and like I couldn't hold out any longer.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you have allergies to miss any medications.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you have any surgeries. Have you had any surgeries.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Some surgeries. What about like
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thoughts of harming yourself like suicidal thoughts history of that or are we, is there something we should worry about right now.
sophie conley: Um, as of right now, it's, I don't really have like any suicidal ideation.
sophie conley: But when I was like in high school when I was drinking a lot. I definitely like
sophie conley: I'm pretty sure I caught myself and like
sophie conley: Wanted. Yeah, just like wanted to die all the time, but I'm kind of one away when I drink less and then
sophie conley: Using like cocaine has made my suicidal ideation higher, but like after after I'm like recovered from the whole thing.
sophie conley: Or like after I'm like not high anymore and not coming down. I feel like way happier way better.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. But yeah, the cocaine does stirred things up.
sophie conley: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then, okay, similar to the alcohol.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, how in you were, you were kind of you said you were cutting yourself in high school.
sophie conley: Not like
sophie conley: Tommy Dreamer yeah yeah I'm nothing like
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's just like for pain like feeling
sophie conley: Yeah, yeah. And it wasn't very often.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Did you ever, like, have an attempt like took stuff or
Dr. Belis Aladag: Very deeply or
No.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so, so I would say we're probably I mean at moderate risk if we're like mild, moderate, severe
Dr. Belis Aladag: As possible like suicide.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Just because you're saying when you do use it does come up, you know, the thoughts.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But you don't have a plan. You don't know. Okay. Um, okay. So let's talk about what's going like the US, like, what, what is the latest like in the last week or when did you first tell your parents. And have you been cutting down like what has been going on with that.
Um,
sophie conley: Ever since the whole coven standing in I've used, I think, like, three times maybe
sophie conley: And then the last time I used was
sophie conley: Last Thursday.
sophie conley: Okay. And I just told my parents start your day night about it.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Got it. So,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thursday was the 30th of April.
sophie conley: Yes. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: 30 and then you just told them on Saturday just recent
Dr. Belis Aladag: On the second of May. Okay, gotcha. Okay. So this all recent but you will in since March. So in the month of March, and all of April, total that third time was the end of April for 30
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah.
sophie conley: And I would say I was like
sophie conley: Not using as much as a not using as much or as often as I was like before the coven but yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, gotcha. Why is that, is it because you used to go out or
sophie conley: Yeah, I would just be out more and like at work and busy, but not many parents. I need to know where I'm going and
sophie conley: They know
sophie conley: I don't really have like a place that I need to go right now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right.
sophie conley: This is harder to
Dr. Belis Aladag: For you to be like, Okay, I'm not here. Yeah.
sophie conley: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So opportunities have been less
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, between seven last and then April 30 so
Dr. Belis Aladag: So what did your. How was the discussion with your parents on Saturday night. What did they say anything like we need you to go into treatment or like what happened. Did they say
Anything on
sophie conley: They didn't say a whole lot I we didn't have like a super long conversation about it, but my mom was not surprised. And I just told her. I'm like, going to get help.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
sophie conley: And I was that I was going to ask my therapist about like a program or some outside help with addiction and
sophie conley: My dad didn't take it like as well. He
sophie conley: Was just like upset that
sophie conley: I had the money to spend on it and thinks that like I don't actually want to stop.
sophie conley: And they asked how long I had been using
sophie conley: Hey, I told them like around a year.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And I mean in terms of money. It was the money you were making right i mean
sophie conley: At this year. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, um,
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. So your dad was a little more upset.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Um, what do I want to ask you, in general, do you have physically like a review of systems like you're breathing, your heart, your stomach like digestion and stuff. Do you have any issues do you get headaches regularly do have breathing problems or
sophie conley: No, I'm pretty healthy, I would just say I had an eating disorder. A couple years ago, and I'm still like recovering from that.
sophie conley: But when I went into the hospital for it. They said that I had like a slow heart rate or something like my heart wasn't doing well, but I'm pretty sure
sophie conley: Like since I've gotten better, it's gotten better. So I don't think there's any concern.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so three years ago you were diagnosed with depression, anxiety, when were you diagnosed with the eating disorder, or was it going on for a long time and you weren't diagnosed or what
Um,
sophie conley: I think it like got pretty serious around the time that I was diagnosed with my anxiety and depression.
sophie conley: Like shortly after that I
sophie conley: Was sent home from school to get treatment.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, where you're in college.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So tell me about the eating disorder, a bit like was that for you, restricting
sophie conley: And then, yeah, then
Dr. Belis Aladag: Purging or
sophie conley: Just anorexia.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so like not eating.
Yeah.
sophie conley: And I guess like throughout high school I had been like
sophie conley: I don't know how you would say like
sophie conley: Just very like careful of what I'm eating and, like, making sure I work out and like just being sort of restrictive and then it got
sophie conley: Like a lot more serious when I went away to college.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And they sent you home. So was there. Did you collapse or something. Did you
sophie conley: Know I had just
sophie conley: I like met with this therapists and at the school and told her what was going on and she
sophie conley: She escalated. She, she just like recommended that I like drop out and go home and get some like
sophie conley: Treatment and then I went home. I didn't get treatment right away and I had like
sophie conley: A doctor's appointment one like a few months, or a month after I got back and like through there, they found out that my weight had dropped a lot and I had to go to this clinic and they told me that like I was going to collapse if I didn't go into
sophie conley: The hospital.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and you were in the hospital and then they kind of read. Did they do like a rehab type thing where they helped you eat more and
I'm
sophie conley: Kind of, yeah, it was. Yeah, I guess it was like required that I eat.
sophie conley: The meals that they gave me. And if I can finish it, they, they would give me like a protein shake or whatever. Yeah.
sophie conley: And that lasted for like a little over a week.
sophie conley: Okay, and then I got out and did like an outpatient program.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I was that, did you did you like the program was this any of this helpful or
sophie conley: Yeah, I actually liked the program and it was helpful.
sophie conley: Um, I definitely like grew a lot there. So,
sophie conley: It was nice.
Dr. Belis Aladag: To do that. So you did that and then did you go back to school or did you not do that.
sophie conley: I went back to work, or I had been working when I first came home from college. And then I went into the hospital. So I quit. And then I got another job when I got out of the hospital God
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Got it, got it, got it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: All right and and
Dr. Belis Aladag: How are you feeling now. I mean, are you feeling like
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like you are wanting to resume where you left off in school, or are you like, no, I think I'll be just doing what I was doing working like retail once things open up are
Dr. Belis Aladag: You thoughts about that.
I'm
sophie conley: I'm thinking I eventually want to go back to school.
sophie conley: And I might just start working part time and start doing a little bit of like classes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Mm hmm. But
sophie conley: I haven't really made any, like, Sure. Positive decisions that I wanted. What I want to do.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Were used more you in like a major something like did you have like a track you were studying
sophie conley: Yeah I when I went away to college, I was studying nutrition and then that kind of, I think that like really kick started my eating disorder.
sophie conley: So, and then I like when I dropped out. I feel like I can't really go back to that.
sophie conley: Yeah.
sophie conley: Yeah, I just don't want to like set myself up for that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, if you have that gut feeling. I mean, it could go either way people have, you know, done the op, you know, gone for that because they
Dr. Belis Aladag: Did and blah, blah, blah. But if you have a gut feeling like I don't feel like I want to be exposed to this material all the time because it kind of goes into
Dr. Belis Aladag: My own hands, then or triggers you in some ways, then you trust that because
Dr. Belis Aladag: Why, why, nobody's making a do that field. You don't have to
sophie conley: Write, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, I think that's probably wise to stay away from that field since that kind of made things wrap things up in a bad way. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so in terms of restricting and eating. How have you since you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Finished the outpatient program. I guess it's been a few years, a year and a half or so.
sophie conley: Yeah, it's been around like a year and a half.
sophie conley: I feel like pretty recovered and good
sophie conley: Okay, um,
sophie conley: Yeah, I guess, like my eating is all good. Just like my the way I view myself isn't like great like I don't have very high confidence at all or
Dr. Belis Aladag: Mm hmm.
sophie conley: I still like think about my body and like
sophie conley: Ways that are unhelpful, I guess.
I see.
sophie conley: But
sophie conley: I feel like 100% or not 100 but like 98% better
Dr. Belis Aladag: In terms of your eating habits and restricting and not doing okay. Good. I'm glad I mean the mental stuff though the body image and like confidence stuff, that stuff that that's important because those are
Dr. Belis Aladag: Some, some of the underlying drivers of those of the eating disorder. Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, and can also be underlying issues that drive addictions.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, and you wanting to just check out or whatever clear your head, you know, it could be, it could be and
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's in your best interest to kind of try to work on that on self confidence and image, you know, self in audio image.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah. OK. So those. So you have a therapist. You've been working with a therapist, but in bright heart. So in our program. We actually assign you to a therapist as well.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you have an option. It's not here's what I think. I don't think it's a good idea to have multiple therapists that you're with at the same time.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So I would say, One option is to pause, you've been with her for three years. I'm assuming it's a she.
sophie conley: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you pause. Maybe you pause your, your care with her and say, Okay, thanks for the referral. I'm going to do their program, which includes like talk therapy.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then start something here with a new therapist.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And see how that goes. And you start with like fresh eyes and you say,
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, these are the things that I think I would like to focus on obviously addiction being the most prominent thing but underneath the umbrella of addiction is all the drivers and so maybe
Dr. Belis Aladag: Confidence can come up there if that's something you didn't really focus on before. I don't know.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, but it could be a good, fresh start for you to just explore, see what that is, you know,
sophie conley: Okay, that sounds good.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I think that's the wisest thing to do.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The other often is
Dr. Belis Aladag: You start that, and you're like, You know what, I think I was doing like more I was making more progress with my old therapist.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So I'll do the medication or the like, I don't know the group therapy piece with you guys, but I'll do the individual with her. I still think though if you're going to do this program just do the whole thing.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, do the individual and the groups together with us. And then we'll see, you know, give it a little bit and then you can decide what how you want to move forward.
sophie conley: Gotcha. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that's that. So,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you'll work with an individual therapist and that could be weekly that could be every other week. It depends on
Dr. Belis Aladag: what your needs are when they do that first visit with you. They do what's called a bio psychosocial assessment and they kind of go through your psychiatric history and
sophie conley: Decide you
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you will do that. So you'll do individual therapy.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then the groups, like I said, it will be with me and our therapists, it may be the same therapist, you're assigned to depending on what day we decide to come
Dr. Belis Aladag: So yeah, so that's kind of how it will work. Now, in terms of medications.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I will defer to your psychiatry is to continue, you know, the flocks of teen and the lens opinion been on that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, and so adjustments need to be made. You can you are in touch with that person that's like I do.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You can do that and you know cocaine and stimulant addictions respond
Dr. Belis Aladag: They respond to like contingent what we call contingency management, which is like
Dr. Belis Aladag: rewarding yourself for good behavior. And then, you know, withholding when you're not doing so well, kind of thing not punching but so
Dr. Belis Aladag: So like, so think of a reward system for yourself that you can do like if you're doing well. Let's say we set a goal for you and you're like, my goal is not to have to use cocaine.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Ever again or definitely not in the next month, you know, we could set little goals.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And meet those goals like every week that you don't or something, you can have a little reward system for yourself. That's a healthy reward you know
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, it could be nominal. It doesn't have to be a lot. It could be like, Okay, I'm going to put $10 towards like something that I'm going to splurge on later, you know, if I
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do it, you know, or suddenly something very, but I would recommend that you think of that reward system and just set it in place already for those maybe every day or every week that you have that you stay away.
sophie conley: Okay, that's a good idea.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, just, just do that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then with us will be testing you. So once a month you'll get a random
Dr. Belis Aladag: drug test that comes in the mail, you don't open it. Don't open the envelope. Just call us first call the virtual clinic and then they watch you open the envelope you go to the bathroom. Take care of your stuff and then you show them what it looks like.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So it's a drug test like a, you know, on the spot drug test that will keep you hopefully like on your toes, because you're like, well, someone's monitoring me i'm i'm being being monitored and so that should help you feel like, okay, like I'm in a program. I'm doing this.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that will help you. And then, like I said, you'll be doing individual therapy focusing on what are the drivers behind this. Why am I doing this in the first place. How can I combat whatever it is that's steering me in this direction.
Dr. Belis Aladag: First without call them with marijuana. Now with this like what's going on that's bringing me to this point.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right and really exploring those things and then using the groups to see that you're not alone. The groups are. I have a lot of people
Dr. Belis Aladag: There's different substances, but I would say a lot of them are addicted to opioids.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you'll see some opioid users some alcohol use this and that. But the point is, everybody has the same thing in common, of like wanting to just escape or like being drawn to this substance that just takes them out of whatever it is that they're not liking.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so knowing that there's other people with similar coming from all walks of life with similar kind of thought processes and tendencies. If it's, there's something really helpful about
Dr. Belis Aladag: Just that
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then it's nice because people can use get to know people a little bit you can chime in if you want to, like, if someone's having a bad day and you want to say something or you know whatever
Dr. Belis Aladag: people interact and it's kind of nice. Those are the moments that are like that's the magic of the group is like just
Dr. Belis Aladag: Slip
Dr. Belis Aladag: People start supporting each other.
sophie conley: Yeah, I like it. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, good. So you're not you're not unfamiliar with with that kind of process.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, I'm
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, I think I got everything that I need any legal trouble any D wise or
sophie conley: No. Luckily, no. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then is there anything that we didn't cover that we should they we you know that you want to mention or
Dr. Belis Aladag: That you do you have any questions about anything.
sophie conley: Um, I
sophie conley: Think we covered everything. I have a question about like
sophie conley: So that has this always been an online program or
sophie conley: Like an office that
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, good question. Um, because of the coven everybody's founded shifting. But interestingly, bright heart health was created as a tele health service. So there is no like building
Dr. Belis Aladag: And the doctors we work from different parts of the country. So from California, you know, you're licensed if I'm licensed in California, which I am I will see patients that are registered for in the state of California. But then there's we have doctors that work in different states.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So yes, it's interesting. I used to work at Kaiser Permanente in the addiction clinic in Los Angeles. I live in Los Angeles.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so I you know that's what I'm used to. And I, we didn't tell a health. So some of my patients once in a while for follow up. I'd see them through video or phone
Dr. Belis Aladag: But I never did full time just Tele health. And so this is a newer thing for me as of a couple months ago. So I'm your program to
sophie conley: Cool.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But it's been it's been fun. It's interesting. It's a different vibe. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So yeah, so that's that. And then, oh there's blood tests that they want you to do.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Now, do you have a quest lab near you.
sophie conley: I do. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, good. So you can do that. They it's a urine test and a blood test, I believe.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you can get that at some point.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Any other, any other thoughts.
sophie conley: No.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so I would say
Dr. Belis Aladag: In terms of sobriety. Let's clarify that before we, you know, and things
Dr. Belis Aladag: What, what do you think is your goal. What is a realistic goal. Like, what do you want
sophie conley: What would you ideally like to do
sophie conley: Um I deeley, I would like to be 100% sober.
sophie conley: Mm hmm. Um,
sophie conley: Yeah, I'm not sure. Like how
Dr. Belis Aladag: From cocaine marijuana
sophie conley: Yeah, from everything
sophie conley: But I thought
I like that, yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I think that's a good goal. I think that's the smartest goal right now, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so to attain that goal.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you need to take certain measures that you haven't yet, for example. Is there alcohol in the house that really shouldn't be there because it's tempting for you.
sophie conley: Um,
sophie conley: It is tempting, but it's not mine. So, I mean, I do sometimes take it, but I feel like pretty okay about it being in the house. Like, it's not really
sophie conley: I don't like pass by it every day or anything like that but like my parents will have drinks like yeah
sophie conley: My dad will have a drink, probably every other night or something like that. So,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. So there is that. I mean, you're
Dr. Belis Aladag: So for now, you're saying it seems OK and manageable.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The moving forward. We'll see. Like if it becomes problematic, you start
Dr. Belis Aladag: Because you're seeing your dad drink or because you know it's in the house or something. If it starts becoming a problem.
Dr. Belis Aladag: For you in your sobriety, then we can have a different approach like maybe we need to talk to your parents about like, Hey. Do you guys mind or whatever. We'll just figure it out. But for now, you're saying that's not necessary.
sophie conley: Yeah, I feel, I feel like pretty in control. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: With that, with the alcohol, marijuana. Do have any marijuana do
sophie conley: I don't have any
sophie conley: And yeah, I don't have any
Dr. Belis Aladag: Over. Okay, so that's that. And then the cocaine. Do you have any. And do you have very, what is your access to that and how can we make it harder for you.
sophie conley: To act. Um, I don't have any and my mom.
sophie conley: Is not really letting me take the car anywhere anymore. Ever since I told her. Okay, so I can't go drive and pick it up.
Gotcha.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gotcha. Okay, so, so you're restricted, you're just restricted.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you feel pretty safe about all those things.
sophie conley: Um, yeah, yeah. I mean, if I like or to drive somewhere. I definitely be really tempted to go pick up but
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so as long as your ability to drive is hindered or controlled you feel safe when like staying sober. Yeah. Gotcha. Okay, so we're going to move forward like as time goes on. We're going to because you're going to eventually need to use your car and go, please. You know what
sophie conley: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: To live your life and then feel secure that you can do that and just be in control and not do things. You don't want to be doing.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So as we progress as time goes on. We'll work on that, like, okay, how, what's going on with your mom and when do you think you're ready to start taking the car here and there. Where would you take it. What would you, what would your own rules be
Dr. Belis Aladag: And I think your one on one therapist is going to be key for this for your program because these are the kinds of details, you want to go into with with the individual therapist to be like
Dr. Belis Aladag: What is my plan. So this week, not driving, am I going to start asking to be able to drive. Well, how do I feel about that one, you know,
sophie conley: Yeah yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: Really get into the nitty gritty of that as well as, like, what's driving this stuff, this behavior. This compulsion. So the why of it and also the practical, like, Okay, what do I do now. Like, literally, this week kind of thing.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Now, those two should be managed by the therapist.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So when you enter the
Dr. Belis Aladag: therapy session.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, remember to to do that like start and say these are my goals like one is to figure out the drivers and the other is to have like have you kind of hand hold as I go week by week and try to figure out what I'm supposed to be doing, you know, in my recovery.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and then have you been to any like outside groups like like cocaine anonymous or a or anything like that.
sophie conley: I haven't
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so now because of the coven. There's a lot of zoom groups.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you may want to start checking these things out.
Dr. Belis Aladag: There is, let me get that website for you. There's a
Dr. Belis Aladag: Website.
Dr. Belis Aladag: A entire group that's what it is. I'm going to give it to you and my chat.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So I will see if you can see it in my I'm going to type it in there. Do you see it.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that should have some of the zoom conferences for a
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then
Dr. Belis Aladag: Then this one. This is narcotics, which is not really your shield. But I heard that this is a good site for different meetings. It's just the place for meetings.
Dr. Belis Aladag: There are focused on the opioids Narcotics Anonymous is but like a, you can kind of join and anyone can come in, kind of thing. So anyway, just stuff to look at and maybe join and see you don't want to say anything. You just kind of be there.
sophie conley: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Check it out, get in that world. Like what is this recovery world about
sophie conley: Yeah. Okay. Sounds good. I'll check it out.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so those are things so so all you have to do now is when we hang up call the virtual clinic again and say, hey, I did the doctor's appointment. She says, I have to book my therapy appoint my first therapy.
sophie conley: Appointment
Dr. Belis Aladag: And do that. And so you're already assigned automatically to somebody, so that they'll know they'll say, Okay, yes, your therapist is blah, blah, blah. And here, here's the next available and do that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then for
Dr. Belis Aladag: For me for like groups.
Dr. Belis Aladag: There is a really
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, there's a women's group that I have Mondays at 10am
Dr. Belis Aladag: Or there's like a mixed group on Thursday, you like that Thursdays at 4pm
sophie conley: I'm direct to the side right now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, I guess not. You don't have to decide now but you choose one, you know, choose the Monday at 10 or the Thursday at four and you stick to that as much as you can. Because like I said, it's like a group thing. So you get to know the people, but
Dr. Belis Aladag: Hopefully, you know, we try to have consistency.
sophie conley: I think I'll do the Thursday one
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, Thursday. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, sure. Let's try to Thursday 4pm
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so we'll see you then. So in a couple of days you log in at like 345 because they'll do some surveys about your addiction and stuff before you get in
sophie conley: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: We'll give you a zoom ID that changes every week that they'll be like, Okay, here's the ID get fast. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So like set your alarm for 345 on Thursdays.
sophie conley: Okay and log into the virtual clinic and tell them, hey, I have a doctor Allah DAG group.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm supposed to be doing a group and then they'll, they'll put you in
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that's so that's ongoing we'll see each other there. And then in terms of your therapist, you will set that up now and then hopefully you'll be able to see that person.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Regularly and really have those nitty gritty detailed conversations about what you should be doing.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, cool. And then I'm always here. So if you're like, Hey, you know, I'd rather do an individual appointment with you about stuff I want more detail on or whatever, anything you need, you just
Dr. Belis Aladag: This totally fine. You just tell the virtual clinic, you'd like an individual appointment with me and they will set you up. Okay. Cool. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So we'll see
Dr. Belis Aladag: You Thursday and you'll hopefully meet my other people there and we'll go from there.
sophie conley: Yes. Sounds great.
sophie conley: Thank you so much for your
Dr. Belis Aladag: Future. Bye bye.